bloom-share lets you shorten urls so that they are more easily shared on character restricted mediums.

= Introduction =
bloom-share shortens urls by storing the full url in a database and doing lookups on request then redirecting to the proper url.  bloom-share exists because SMS message are only permitted to contain 140 characters, so longer/complex urls would consume too many characters in an SMS message.

= Installation Overview =

    * Add bloom.share to your INSTALLED_APPS: 

INSTALLED_APPS = (
    ...
    bloom.share,
    ...
)

    * Add bloom.share.views lookup_view to your urls patterns so that sharedlinks will resolve properly

urlpatterns = patterns('',
    ...
     (r'^lookup/(?P<slug>[A-Za-z0-9]+)/$', lookup_view),
    ...
)

    * Add the correct settings to your settings.py so that sharedlinks are created with the correct base url and slug length

{{{
BLOOM_SHARE_BASE_URL = 'http://localhost:8000/lookup'
# This is the starting length for your slug,
# if bloom creates 10 different slugs and they all find existing matches,
# then bloom will use BLOOM_SHARE_SLUG_LENGTH+1 to create the next slug.
# basically keep an eye on slug usage and increment this if your users are doing alot of sharing
BLOOM_SHARE_SLUG_LENGTH = 5
}}}


Now with the lookups correctly configured you can add the bloom.share functionality throughout your app .


bloom.share.utils always expects there to be a sharer and sharee user object.
You may be wondering how you would manage to always have user objects for phone_numbers to potentially non registered users,
before you try to call share_url you should probably read through the code in share_by_email and share_by_sms.
There is a call to functions from BloomUser that will make it easier to do such things as always have a user object associated with a number.

There are 2 basic widgets to give you an example of how bloom.share works.
Add bloom.share.views.share_by_email_view and bloom.share.views.share_by_sms_view to your url patterns and it should display 
a basic page with a fields to share a url to an email address and to a phone number respectively.  
These widgets expect your settings.py to contain the correct values, and for the template directory bloom.share.templates to be added to your templates directory.